---
title: Example with styled images
date: 2025-08-28 04:04 CDT
category: test
tags: test
stylesheet: additional_styles/posts/example-with-styled-images-2025-08-28
---

The question of Jimmu's existence is a subject outside the scope of this book,
but it is interesting to note that in paintings and descriptions of his life,
Jimmu is always depicted with a long bow and arrows.

## The Ancient Period

[_![](posts/example-with-styled-images-2025-08-28/dorothy-toto.jpg.jpg){: .right .mb1 .mhnn #dorothy-toto.jpg}_](#dorothy-toto.jpg)
From the fourth to the ninth century, Chinese culture strongly influenced the
system of government in Japan. Along with etiquette and court ritual, the
Japanese adopted the ceremonial archery of the Chinese aristocracy, which
considered proficiency in archery the mark of a refined, well-educated man. A
scholar of the time wrote that civilized men should never fight to settle their
differences but should resolve them through a test of shooting skill. Such
contests must be governed by a strict code of etiquette, and both participants
must conduct themselves accordingly. They must show their respect by bowing to
one another before they shoot, and afterward, the loser must accept the results
with dignity and grace, and offer a toast of congratulations to the winner.
Japan and China broke off relations in the ninth century, but Chinese thought
continued to have a profound and lasting influence on Japanese archery. In
fact, long after ceremonial archery died out in China it continued to develop
in Japan, where it ultimately flowered into the art of kyudo.

The following three hundred years brought several changes that once again
altered the practice of Japanese archery. First of all, as the power of
privileged landowners increased, they were granted tax exemptions and immunity
from official inspectors.

[_![](posts/example-with-styled-images-2025-08-28/dorothy-toto.jpg-2.jpg){: .left .mb1 .mhnn #dorothy-toto.jpg-2}_](#dorothy-toto.jpg-2)
An increasing amount of land thus passed into true private holdings. Then, as
the state's authority over the land diminished, landowners assumed the
responsibility of governing and protecting the people who lived within their
private estates. As a result, the conscript army, an undisciplined and poorly
trained group of men who were more laborer than soldier, was replaced by a more
capable provincial militia. Finally, as the influence of the central government
waned, the power of the elite warrior families increased and a new military
class, the samurai, began to dominate the country. The rise of the samurai
class led to the formation of the various ryu, or martial schools. The early
archery ryu were not very organized; they had no systematic methods of
instruction. Nevertheless, they provided training for new generations of
archers. Consequently, the major samurai clans came to depend heavily on the
expertise of the archery schools.  Minamoto no Tametomo was said to have been
an exceptionally large and powerful man. It is recorded that his arrows
measured "twelve hands and two fingers." He supposedly used a bow that was so
powerful it took five men to pull it.

Legend has it that during the Gempei era, Tametomo lived in exile on Oshima
island in Izu. Since he considered the island to be his private domain, he
refused to pay taxes. His intransigence ultimately provoked the central
government into sending an armada of twenty small warships in an attempt to
force him to pay.
